---
layout: post
title: "Tester, Know Thy Role"
date: 2007-06-20
---

Recently I attended a great presentation at my local SPIN meeting ([Milwaukee
SPIN Group](http://www.milwaukeespin.com/)). The presentation, "Separation of
Duties: Why projects deserve a Project Manager and a Business Analyst", was on
the BA and PM roles and why both are necessary and complementary roles. In the
presentation the speakers discussed their experiences. Some discussion went to
how people sometimes try to fill both roles at the same time and how they
might not be as effective at both. They also discussed how a PM isn't
necessarily as good at the details as a BA and how a BA isn't necessarily as
good at keeping the whole project moving as the PM.

This made me think about Testers and their role in the project. In the
presentation, it was stressed that the PM's role is to keep track of the
project and remove barriers to completion. And it was explained that the BA's
role is to understand the customer's needs and communicate those needs in the
form of requirements. The Tester's role on the project is to test the product,
identify issues with the software and communicate the coverage of their
testing to the team. Each of those statements is a simplification, but a valid
simplification.

I find that a significant number of testers really want to be helpful.
Sometimes too helpful. Testers often have a diverse set of skills and like to
show off how helpful they can be, and so they may find themselves volunteering
to do most anything; including things that have nothing to do with testing. Is
being helpful a bad thing? Not necessarily. The problem lies not within the
desire to be helpful, nor in the act of being helpful. It lies in
understanding the role expected of me on my project and letting the desire to
be helpful take me out of my role and introducing riskh.

I was recently reminded of the fact a tester needs to be careful about being
too helpful and keep in mind their accepted role on the project. It was in a
context where there is a client implementation and Test Leads exist on both
the client side and on the vendor side. The Test Lead at the client (Clint),
who is doing their best to look after the risks in their project was asking
about functionality that the vendor Test Lead (Vendi) thought might be
possible, but wasn't sure. Vendi was also not sure if the functionality had
been promised to the client and what might be the impact to attempting the
functionality. As such, Vendi wanted to be helpful and could have offered some
suggestions, but these suggestions might never have been possible. Promising
this to the client could have been a problem, so Clint explained that he would
pass on the question to the Lead BA (Barbara). After all, Barbara is the
person who should be nailing down the requirements and would understand if the
functionality request was a scope change.


Saying "Tester, Know thy Place" is a bit extreme. In general, most of the time
I've heard this said it was out of ignorance of what testers can do and can
contribute to a project. At the same time, testers do need to know and
understand their role on the project. It's perfectly fine to be helpful; being
helpful can often buy a lot of valuable goodwill that can get you time or
resources you need when testing. I just always try to remember that sometimes
I can help best by doing the testing and letting the BA, the PM and the other
team members perform their roles.

