---
layout: post
title: Some Thoughts on Mindmapping (part 1)
category: articles
tags:
- mindmapping
---
I've been using mindmaps on and off for at least seven years now. I wish I
could find some of the first mindmaps that I ever created or site the source
that got me started on it. It was probably [Merlin
Mann](http://twitter.com/hotdogsladies) or some other productivitiy wiz. The
truth is I love to try out new ideas and techniques, especially in the
productivity pron realm.

I've used several different apps to create mindmaps. Initially I used
[Freemind](http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page), then was
fortunate enough to have a license for [MindManager
Pro](http://www.mindjet.com/mindmanager/), which was really powerful, but was
over $300. I even used an online tool, but I can't remember the version I was
using. My recent efforts to find a replacement have pointed out
[Freeplane](http://freeplane.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) and
[xMind](http://www.xmind.net/), but neither were what I was looking for. [1]

Eventually I found
[iThoughtsHD](http://www.ithoughts.co.uk/Start/Welcome.html) on the iPad. The
iThoughtsHD experience on the iPad is truely one of the most intuitive.
Fingers are great at selecting and moving around nodes in the map.
Additionally, iThoughtsHD import/export functionality is top notch. It
supports most of the major mindmapping file formats. Additionally, it can
produce markdown and other text formats.

And now, there is iThoughtsX, the OS X version of the app. It's not quite as
nice as iThoughtsHD on the iPad. It's still only on its second release, so
there is still room to grow. Additionally, the desktop metaphor supports
functions that didn't make sense on iOS.

I'm currently using a preview still of iThoughtsX, but expect to buy a license
in the future. I like the polish and the compatibility with the iOS versions,
so it puts it ahead of the cheaper and free options. And MindManager Pro is
just way to expensive and has so much functionality I would never use.

I said in my last post that I intend to make more use of mindmaps in my day to
day work. And I have, but I will share those thoughts in a future post.

* * *

  1. I really just use a Mac nowadays, so I'm not the best judge of Windows options.

