---
layout: post
title: 'Obligatory Post Conference Post #CAST2013'
category: articles
tags:
- conferences
- testing
---
I say obligatory, but I don't mean it's a chore. I also don't mean to be
dismissive of the posts that many of my colleagues attending CAST 2013 are
sharing. There are some very good ones out there:

* [Testing Ideas CAST 2013 pt 1](http://rhythmoftesting.blogspot.com/2013/08/testing-ideas-cast-2013-pt-1.html)
* [Testing Ideas CAST 2013 pt 2](http://rhythmoftesting.blogspot.com/2013/08/testing-ideas-cast-2013-pt-2.html)
* [Lessons Learned at CAST 2013](http://vscomputer.wordpress.com/2013/08/31/lessons-learned-at-cast-2013/) 


Go ahead and read those. It's good stuff.

Are you back? OK. The conference will inspire more posts. These a just some of
the first few. You might find more the same way I did, using the hash tag
#CAST2013 on Twitter.

## My First Testing Conference in Twelve Years

At the start of my career, I was fortunate enough to be at a company that
valued training and had a budget to support it. I went to two STAR (they
didn't have east/west back then) conferences, two Software Quality Weeks, and
two Rational Users Conferences. It was great. It was also repetitive. After a
while, I sort of knew what to expect. Sure, there were some great sessions,
such as the Low Tech Testing Dashboard being presented by James Bach, or
keynotes by Cem Kaner. But ultimately, I stopped pushing and the budget dried
up with the post Y2K recession, and the conferences all looked the same.

So when the opportunity to go to a conference this year came up, I looked at
my options. Truth is, CAST was my first choice, but when I looked at the other
conferences, well, I saw a lot of the same stuff as when I went in the late
nineties. Sure, there are new topics, such as agile testing, but it felt the
same. So I chose CAST, and I don't regret it.

## CAST 2013 - Three Things

Rather than recount the conference, I will talk about what I plan to do now.
Others took better notes and are doing a great job of capturing highlights, so
I will focus on the three things that I want to change as a result of going to
this conference. Why three things? Well, that was the suggestion Justin Hunter
[1] made in his presentation on Exploratory Combinatorial Testing (he would
point out that it wasn't his suggestion originally, but Pete Whalen's). And
three is the magic number.

### First Thing - Debrief Better

This wasn't the topic of anyone's presentation, but the concept of debriefs
came up a few times as part of good Exploratory Testing. I realized that while
my team has been communicating pretty well, I feel like the feedback loop for
testing is depending too much on JIRA. Some more proactive discussion on what
I tested, how I tested it and what I found will only help improve quality. It
isn't magic, but it would be better discipline and can help improve our
outcomes.

### Second Thing - Use Mindmaps More

I really do like Mindmapping. I've been doing it on and off for years, but I
am not consistent about it. When I have used it to good effect, it has been
very helpful in communicating what I am thinking and how I understand the
relationships of things. The response from my coworkers has generally been
positive. And at CAST, I saw examples from multiple sources including Aaron
Hodder [2] and Clair Moss [3] and others using Mindmaps at the conference.
Aaron showed an example from his work and Claire used one in the tutorial I
went to on Monday. Both tracked progress in the maps nicely. No, neither of
them invented that idea, but they demonstrated it well.

I have already started. The timing is right for me to use a mindmap as my own
personal status tool for the iteration. I will plan out what I have to do and
track the status of it all there. I will use the Product Coverage Outline
concepts from the tutorial while building and expanding on this mindmap.

### Third Thing - Find a Way to Participate in the Conversation

I saw a number of people put themselves out there. Some of them for the first
time. I don't have better or more important things to say, but I have a voice
and an opinion. I have experiences to share. During the lightning talks, I
even realized that I had a talk I could have given. But it was too late. It
was ok; there were plenty of great lightning talks.

So I've been writing here on and off for a while. Now I need to do it more and
do it better. I will share more here, even if it is just a tiny FitNesse tip.
Additionally, I will put together a proposal to speak at a conference next
year, hopefully at CAST.





  1.
Justin Hunter: https://twitter.com/hexawise  ↩

  2.
Aaron Hodder: https://twitter.com/AWGHodder  ↩

  3.
Claire Moss: https://twitter.com/aclairefication  ↩





